feat: gateway subdomains + http proxy mode (#6096)
ipfs/go-ipfs: docs/config.md

Default: `[]`

- `NoDNSLink`  
  A boolean to configure whether DNSLink lookup for value in `Host`
  HTTP header should be performed.  If DNSLink is present, content path stored
  in the DNS TXT record is mounted at `/` and respective payload is returned to
  the client.

Default: `false`

### Gateway.PublicGateways

> `PublicGateways` is a dictionary for defining gateway behavior on specific fully qualified domain names (FQDN).  

Author: Are we doing per-gateway dnslink settings?

Reviewer: Yes. 
`NoDNSLink` is both global and per host.
It enables user to opt-out from resolving `Host: ` header globally, then enable it for a specific hostname.

Options for changing behavior per hostname:

- `Paths`  
  Array of paths that should be mounted at the root of domain name.  
  Example: `["/ipfs", "/ipns", "/api"]`  

>   - **Note:** when both `Paths` and DNSLink are mounted, `Paths` takes priority

Author: DNSLink mounted?

Reviewer: Yeah not sure what is the best wording here, would appreciate suggestions:

```json
     "PublicGateways": {
        "example.com": {
          "Paths": ["/ipfs"],
          "NoDNSLink": false,
```

Above resolves DNSLink for `example.com` and mounts it at `/`, then mounts `/ipfs/` on top of it, so content-addressed gateway is used instead of a DNSLink subpath. 

Would below be better?

```suggestion
  - **Note:** If DNSLink is enabled `Paths` are mounted on top of `/` and take priority over DNSLink.
```

Author: That sounds reasonable. It's just that "DNSLink is mounted" is a bit confusing.

- `UseSubdomains`
  A boolean to configure whether the gateway provides [Origin isolation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)
  between content roots.  
  Default: `false`

>   - `true` – mount [subdomain gateway](#https://docs-beta.ipfs.io/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway) at `http://{cid}.ipfs.{hostname}`

Author: nit: shouldn't be specific to `ipfs` (ipns, api, etc?).

>     - requires respective `Paths` to be set

Author: It does? I thought we only needed the path to be set for a redirect to happen. Also, are we using `http://api.hostname`? Or just `hostname/api`? I assume the latter.

Reviewer: Yes, now that we are not reusing `PathPrefixes`, I want to make it more useful: 
- `Paths` define which content paths are handled by the subdomain gateway.
  - Example: `Paths: ["/ipfs"]` would enable `http://{immutable}.ipfs.{hostname}` but refuse `http://{mutable}.ipns.{hostname}`

    - requests for `http://{hostname}/ipfs/{cid}` will return redirect to `http://{cid}.ipfs.{hostname}`
  - `false` – mount [path gateway](https://docs-beta.ipfs.io/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#path-gateway) at `http://{hostname}/ipfs/{cid}`

>     <!-- **(not implemented yet)** due to the lack of Origin isolation, cookies and storage on `Paths` will be disabled by [Clear-Site-Data](https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/157) header -->

Author: Can we do this now? This sounds like it's pretty easy to do.

Reviewer: Sure. I will add a flag to disable this type of hardening if someone really needs to do it:

> Blocking cookies is a nuclear option that may break some deployments behind reverse proxies that pass all headers. We would need `NoWebSecurity` flag (`false` by default) in case someone really wants to disable things like `Clear-Site-Data` in contexts that provide no origin isolation. 

I'll go with `NoWebSecurity` (`false` by default) and make it work the same as `NoDNSLink` (unless you suggest something else).

Author: SGTM.

Reviewer: Note to self: just for sake of merging this sooner than later, we agreed to descope `Clear-Site-Data` from this PR  and land it separately :)

   ```json
   "Gateway": {
       "PublicGateways": {
       "dweb.link": {
           "UseSubdomains": true,
           "Paths": ["/ipfs", "/ipns"]
   ```
   **Note:** this enables automatic redirects from content paths to subdomains  
   `http://dweb.link/ipfs/{cid}` → `http://{cid}.ipfs.dweb.link`

* Public [path gateway](https://docs-beta.ipfs.io/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#path-gateway) at `http://ipfs.io/ipfs/{cid}`
   ```json
   "Gateway": {
     "PublicGateways": {
       "ipfs.io": {
         "UseSubdomains": false,
         "Paths": ["/ipfs", "/ipns", "/api"]
   ```

* Public [DNSLink](https://dnslink.io/) gateway resolving every hostname passed in `Host` header
  (this is the default, works out of the box):
   ```json
   "Gateway": {
     "NoDNSLink": false
   ```

* Hardened, site-specific [DNSLink](https://dnslink.io/) gateway.  
  Disabling public gateway by default (`NoFetch: true`),
  and enabling selected gateway features only on specific hostname for which data
  is already present on the node:
  ```json
  "Gateway": {
      "NoFetch": true,
      "NoDNSLink": true,
      "PublicGateways": {
        "en.wikipedia-on-ipfs.org": {

>           "NoDNSLink": false,

Author: Does this default to true or false?

Reviewer: It defaults to false, so DNSLink works out of the box. 

We could simplify example and remove explicit definition, but then it would have an empty object, so I've left it to make example more clear.

Author: It's just a bit funny because the only place we specify this is where it's _false_. Given that, I'd assume it defaults to true.

Default: `[]`

- `NoDNSLink`
  A boolean to configure whether DNSLink lookup for value in `Host` HTTP header should be performed.
  If DNSLink is present, content path stored in it is mounted at `/` and respective payload is returned to the client.

  Default: `false`

### Gateway.PublicGateways

`PublicGateways` is a dictionary for overriding default options on specific fully qualified domain names (FQDN).  
Options for changing behavior per hostname:

- `NoDNSLink`  
  Overrides global setting of the same name.  
  Default: `false`
- `PathPrefixes`  
  Array of paths that should be mounted at the root of domain name.  

>   **TODO: this does not override global 'PathPrefixes' used for validation of X-Ipfs-Gateway-Prefix header. Should this have different name? eg. PathMounts?**

Author: Or just "Paths"?

  Example: `["/ipfs", "/ipns", "/api"]`  

>   Default: `[]`

Author: Are we sure we want this to default to empty?

Reviewer: I renamed `PathMounts` to `Paths` and removed it from global scope.
Our "know gateways" such as `localhost` are initialized with  `Paths: ["/ipfs", "/ipns"]`:

https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/blob/feat/gateway-subdomains/core/corehttp/hostname.go#L25-L31

For hostnames added by the user, I think  `[]` is a safer default: it requires user to explicitly expose `/ipfs/`, reducing the number of misconfigured DNSLink websites that  act as a public gateways by mistake.

  - **Note:** when both `PathPrefixes` and DNSLink are mounted, `PathPrefixes` take priority
- `UseSubdomains`
  A boolean to configure whether the gateway provides [Origin isolation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)
  between content roots.  
  Default: `false`
  - `true` – mount [subdomain gateway](#https://docs-beta.ipfs.io/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#subdomain-gateway) at `http://{cid}.ipfs.{hostname}`
    - requests for `http://{hostname}/ipfs/{cid}` will return redirect to `http://{cid}.ipfs.{hostname}`
  - `false` – mount [path gateway](https://docs-beta.ipfs.io/how-to/address-ipfs-on-web/#path-gateway) at `http://{hostname}/ipfs/{cid}`

>     - **(not implemented yet)** due to the lack of Origin isolation, cookies and storage will be disabled by [Clear-Site-Data](https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/157) header

Author: Nice!

Reviewer: I think I'll drop it from the scope fo this PR and add `Clear-Site-Data` in a separate one as it may require adding new flag (as noted in https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/157#issuecomment-580341836)
